# 2. Apache License, Version 2.0 (Apache-2.0) for All UDS Products

Date: 2024-06-28

## Status

Superseded (by [0004-agpl-v3-for-all-uds-products.md](./0004-agpl-v3-for-all-uds-products.md))

## Context

Product has been considering a copy-left (LGPL) license for some time for all
UDS Products. This consideration was taken in light of the behavior of several
businesses lately moving towards source-available licenses after gaining scale
for their OSS products. We would never go that route, but other businesses have
gone the copy-left route (Elastic, Grafana, etc) for similar reasons--to avoid
business risk with large competitors, especially the hyper-scalers (AWS, GCP,
Azure, etc).

In our business model we have a distinct advantage because of our ability to
delivery better OSS value than nearly any other defense contractor and better
OSS financial outlook than most OSS companies due to our trust we have built
with various government organizations. However, in some ways, the DoD Primes are
our hyper-scaler equivalents, they are in the same markets with considerably
more resources and deeper relationships. This means our moat, when looking at
other successful defense contractors in particular, is really around our ability
to

1. Create compelling FOSS technology
2. Bring in unique talent not typically found in the defense industrial base
3. Grow an incredibly talented delivery team that can leverage our FOSS
   technology to move faster than others.

Copy-left is still Open Source, but it does cause many organizations to be
hesitant to adopt. Because we believe so deeply in wide adoption of FOSS and
mission impact is still what drives us, we are choosing to keep everything
Apache-2.0 to avoid hindering adoption by our competitors. I believe this aligns
very well with our culture and is the kind of company I want to be a part of.

## Decision

As a business we have decided to keep Apache-2.0 for all of our UDS products.

## Consequences

Could some of our competitors take UDS, slap their logo on it, and sell it and
possibly even underbid us in some cases? Absolutely. We acknowledge that is
possible. But we believe in the talent here enough to be confident we will
always move faster than our competitors and with full authority as we will still
maintain UDS within the company vs in a foundation.
