# 4. [Affero General Public License v3 (AGPLv3)](https://opensource.org/license/agpl-v3) or Commercial for All UDS Products

Date: 2024-10-08

## Status

Accepted

## Context

We have been using Apache 2.0 for our UDS products to ensure wide adoption and foster
collaboration within the open-source community. However, as our UDS product set has
grown in recent months, weâ€™ve reconsidered our licensing strategy and how adopting a
stronger copy-left license could further promote a more open and collaborative ecosystem.

Our commitment to Free and Open-Source Software (FOSS) remains strong. We believe in
cultivating an environment where contributions from all parties, including competitors,
are both encouraged and valued. Large contractors in our space, such as the DoD Primes
(akin to the hyper-scalers in the cloud industry), have significant resources and
established relationships that we want to continue to engage. To reinforce the reciprocal
nature of FOSS in this environment though, we are transitioning to the [Affero General
Public License (v3)](https://opensource.org/license/agpl-v3).

This license not only ensures that others using our technology contribute back to the
community, but it also aligns with our goals of delivering innovative FOSS solutions,
attracting top-tier talent, and accelerating delivery with an agile, open-source-first
approach. We believe AGPLv3 reflects the spirit of our mission and encourages responsible,
transparent collaboration - strengthening the open-source community we all rely on.

We also understand though that some partners may require a more traditional commercial
license. To address this need, we will also be offering a dual-licensing model. This
approach ensures that we continue to serve our partners without slowing down their
adoption or deployment of our solutions, while still encouraging a strong,
open-source-first approach.

## Decision

We have decided to adopt the [Affero General Public License (v3)](https://opensource.org/license/agpl-v3) for all UDS products,
with the option for a commercial license for partners who require it.

## Consequences

Going forward we will need to educate and collaborate with our partners and the larger
DoD ecosystem to help them understand the new licenses and this shift.  These core
products are still as free and open source as ever but with a few more checks to ensure
things can stay that way for the long term.  As with the last ADR we still acknowledge
that others could take our products and resell them, but now they would need to do that
openly which is not only better for us, but also better for our partners as well.

Also of note - this change only applies to Unicorn Delivery Service (UDS) branded
products. Our other products (Pepr, Lula, etc) will remain Apache 2.0.
